Yoga is a systematic practice of physical exercise, breath control, relaxation, diet control, and positive thinking and meditation aimed at developing harmony in the body, mind, and environment. The practice entails low-impact physical activity, postures (called asanas), breathing techniques (pranayama), relaxation, and meditation. Most people are familiar with the physical poses or yoga positions but don't know that yoga involves so much more.                            
                                   benefits of yoga
Yoga improves strength, balance and flexibility. ...
Yoga helps with back pain relief. ...
Yoga can ease arthritis symptoms. ...
Yoga benefits heart health. ...
Yoga relaxes you, to help you sleep better. ...
Yoga can mean more energy and brighter moods. ...
Yoga helps you manage stress. ...
Yoga connects you with a supportive community.





                            best yoga poses for a healthy heart
Utthita Trikonasana or Extended triangle pose:
Step 1: Stand straight on the mat with your feet wide apart. Now turn your left foot out and turn your right foot slightly inward.

Step 2: Face forward and take a deep breath while raising your arms out to the sides so that they form a T with your torso.

Step 3: Exhale and reach your left hand down to your shin as close to the ankle. Bend as far as you can and at the same time lift your right arm up so that the tips of your fingers are pointing to the ceiling.

Step 4: Bring the sides of your torso parallel to the floor. Your neck should be in line with your torso.

Step 5: Look up at your right hand and take 2-3 deep breaths. Then repeat the same on the other side.
Paschimottanasana or Seated forward bend pose:
Step 1: Sit down comfortably on the mat with your legs extended out in front of you and your hands resting by your side.

Step 2: Stretch your hands overhead such that the tips are pointing towards the ceiling.

Step 3: Take a deep breath and draw your spine up long.

Step 4: When you exhale bend forward to touch your toes with your hands.

Step 5: Your belly should be resting on your thighs and your nose should be between your knees. Stay in this position for a few seconds and then go back to where you started.
Gomukhasana or Cow face pose:
Step 1: Sit down comfortably on the ground and bend your knees.

Step 2: Now stack your right knee directly over your left knee. The legs should be as close to your buttock as possible.

Step 3: Take your left arm behind and bend your elbow. Try to reach your hand up towards the shoulders.

Step 4: Now take your right arm overhead, bend the elbow and try to interlock the fingers of both hands. Hold this position for at least 30 seconds and then repeat the same on the other side.
                                      kidney
. Vajrasana:
Formation

Begin by standing straight with your arms by the sides of your bodyLean forward and slowly drop your knees on your matPlace your pelvis on your heels and point your toes outwardHere, your thighs should press your calf musclesKeep your heels close to each otherDo not place the toes on top of the other, instead right and left must be next to each otherPlace your palms on your knees facing upwardStraighten your back and look forwardHold this asana for a while

2. Chakrasana - Wheel Pose:
Formation

Lie down on your backFold your legs at your knees and ensure that your feet are placed firmly on the floorBend your arms at the elbows with your palms facing the sky. Rotate your arms at the shoulders and place your palms on the floor on either side beside your headInhale, put pressure on your palms and legs and lift your entire body up to form an archLook back and relax your neck as you allow your head to fall gently behindYour body weight should be evenly distributed between your four limbsHold the asana for a while
                                             liver
Shalabasana (Locust Pose):
Lie down flat on your stomach with your palms placed under your thighs
Inhale completely (Purak), hold your breath (Kumbakh) and then lift your legs up together
Ensure that your knees remain straight and feet are together
Place your chin or forehead on the ground
Hold the posture for 10 seconds, slowly bringing your legs down and then exhale breath (Rechak) – This breathing technique is therapeutic.
Adomukhi Svanasana:
Start on your fours, ensuring palms are under the shoulders and knees below hips
Lift the hips up, straighten the knees and elbows, and form an inverted ‘V’ shape
Now keep the hands shoulders width apart. Fingers point ahead
Put pressure on your palms and open your shoulder blades
Try to push your heels to the floor
Keep your eye focused on your big toes
Hold for eight to ten breaths
                                diabetes
 Lying Down Body Twist (Folded leg Lumbar stretch):
Lay down flat on your back, extend your arms sideways by your palms facing down. 
Bring your left knees up at the level of your chest and bend it over the right side. Try to bring your knee at the hip level. 
Stay in this pose for 30 seconds and repeat with the opposite side. 
Dhanurasana:
Lie down on your stomach with your feet slightly apart, almost parallel to your hips, and place your arms on the side of your body.
Slowly, fold your knees up and hold your ankles with your hands.
Breathe in and lift your chest off the ground and pull your legs up and stretch it out. You should feel the stretch on your arms and thighs.
Hold the pose for 12-15 seconds, paying attention to your breath as you take long, deep ones.
Slowly bring your chest and legs back to the ground, release your hold on the ankles, and relax with your hands on the side. Repeat for a few sets.
Paschimottanasana:
Sit down and extend your legs straight. 
Inhale and pull your hands up. 
Bring your hands down and try to touch your toes with your hands without bending your knees. 
Touch your chin to your chest. 
Remain in the pose for 60 seconds with normal breathing.    
                                                  pneumonia
Savithri asana:
Drop your knees to the ground gently and keep your upper body straight. Start with Sukshma Vyayam or subtle exercises to warm up the body. Stretch your arms up to the sky with palms hovering shoulder distance from and facing each other. Look forward and hold.
Ustrasana:
Kapal Bhati:
Sit in any comfortable pose (such as Sukhasan, Ardhapadmasan or Padmasana)
Straighten your back and close your eyes
Place your palms on your knees facing up (in Prapthi Mudra)
Inhale normally and focus on exhaling with a short, rhythmic and forceful breath
You can use your stomach to forcefully expel all the air from the diaphragm and  lungs by compressing it
Inhalation should happen automatically while you decompress your stomach.